International Wildcat Welcome: Purple Prep for #NU2030 - Northwestern University
Home
Orientation Programs
International Wildcat Welcome
International Wildcat Welcome
Contact the Office of International Student and Scholar Services
northwestern.edu/international
847-491-5613
oiss-students@northwestern.edu
Checklist tasks found on this page
Reply to your international peer advisor (IPA) in July, then to your peer adviser (PA) in late August.
Request I-20/DS-2019 as soon as you can after you receive the invite.
Arrive on campus on September 13 to participate in International Wildcat Welcome, which begins on the evening of September 13.
Northwestern's Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISS) provides resources, support, and programs to assist you as you transition to life at Northwestern and the United States.
International Wildcat Welcome (IWW) Overview
The Wildcat Welcome experience begins with a track designed for incoming international students: International Wildcat Welcome (IWW). Presented by Northwestern's Office of International Student and Scholar Services, IWW will provide international students with essential information and advice on such matters as immigration and acclimating to U.S. academic culture and life in Evanston.
Program Dates
Due July 15:
Register for IWW via the Wildcat Welcome Registration Form located in your Purple Prep Checklist
Due September 13:
Online orientation course, required for those with F-1/J-1 visas, is available upon invitation to the
OISS portal
.
September 13:
Move-in day for students participating in IWW
September 14-15:
IWW in-person programming
September 15-22:
Wildcat Welcome
Who Participates in IWW?
IWW in-person programming is required for those with F-1/J-1 visas.
Undergraduate students who are U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents and are currently living abroad or those who hold other visa types are welcome to participate in IWW social events if you believe it would be useful to your transition. If interested, please register through the Wildcat Welcome Registration Form, due July 15, located in your Purple Prep Checklist.
Move-in Day for IWW students
Undergraduate students participating in IWW move into their campus residence on September 13. University-provided transportation to campus (known as "airport pickup") will be available on September 13 from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Central Time. Students registered to attend IWW do not need to select a move in appointment as you are required to move to campus on September 13. More information regarding IWW Move-In Day and airport pick up can be found here:
IWW: Plan Your Arrival
.
IWW Programming
Students first receive important information about arrival, travel, and how to obtain the correct immigration documents to obtain their visa through OISS's
New to NU pre-arrival programming
through newsletters and monthly webinars.
Students then move to campus on September 13 to participate in the mandatory in-person portion of IWW before joining the full incoming class for Wildcat Welcome. IWW programming will cover many essential topics such as:
Maintaining ones' immigration status
Essential necessities: U.S. phone number, bank account, transportation etc.
Getting to know the campus and becoming familiarized with key campus partners
Connecting with Northwestern's global community
And much more
International Peer Advisor (IPA)
International peer advisors are current students who will assist you in navigating the transition to life at Northwestern and in the United States; you will have an IPA in addition to your peer adviser (PA) for Wildcat Welcome. In July your IPA will reach out to you to share information and answer any questions you may have as you prepare to come to the United States; you will also hear from your PA in late August as part of the orientation process for all new students.
Request your I-20/DS-2019 as soon as possible
Visit the
OISS website
to review the steps and requirements for new international students, including how to prepare to request your immigration documents prior to obtaining your student visa at a US consulate. Request your immigration document (Form I-20 for F-1 international students or DS-2019 for J-1 international students) in the
OISS Portal
after you have received your OISS Portal invitation email. Questions about how to request your I-20 or DS-2019?
New to NU: Request your I-20 or DS-2019
oiss-students@northwestern.edu
OISS advisor
After you receive your OISS Portal invitation email, please submit your immigration document request as soon as possible to allow yourself the most time to obtain your visa and arrange travel plans.
Summer Communications
Students will register for IWW by completing the international student portion of the Wildcat Welcome Registration Form and then be assigned to an international peer adviser (IPA) group. Please participate in our
New to NU series
. During the summer, your IPA will reach out to you to share information and answer any questions you may have as you prepare to come to the United States; you will also hear from your PA in August as part of the orientation process for all new students.